# witan.cic
Modelling children in care demand and cost

## Usage

Refer to the template config file at data/demo/config.edn. The config file specifies file inputs, output parameters and projection parameters.

There are four input files (named candidates-*) which are generated by the R script at src/rejection-sampling.Rmd. This script generates a variety of input period candidates together with their rejection sampling probabilities (rejection sampling is used to ensure that overall period durations are as historically observed).

The process is as folllows:

1. Execute `lein run generate-candidates` (optionally passing `--config FILE` to use custom config) to generate a period candidates file.
2. Execute the R notebook src/rejection-sampling.Rmd to generate four model input files from the period candidates file.
3. Execute `lein run projection` (optionally passing `--config FILE` to use custom config) to actually generate the projection. Depending on the config either or both of the episodes or summary csvs will be generated.

### Prerequisites

The rejection-sampling.Rmd notebook expects a local Postgres database called `mastodon` containing a schema also called `mastodon`.

Provided postgres has been installed you will probably need to run the below, or an equivalent, in the Postgres prompt:

```SQL
CREATE DATABASE mastodon;
\connect mastodon
CREATE SCHEMA mastodon;
```

The R script will create all the database tables it needs.

### Dictionary

- Total time in care - the total length of time in care
- Period - the length of contiguous time in care
- Phase - the length of time in a placement type
- Episode - the length of time spent in the same placement/placement provider/legal status/CIN
